THE BEST CHOCOLATE CAKE
YIELD: 8 servings PREP TIME: 25 minutes COOK TIME: 35 minutes

INGREDIENTS:
2 cups sugar (400 grams)
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour (210 grams)
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (64 grams)
2 tablespoons King Arthur Flour Black Cocoa, optional (11 grams)
2 teaspoons baking soda (12 grams)
1 teaspoon baking powder (4 grams)
1 teaspoon kosher salt (6 grams)
2 eggs
1 cup buttermilk (240 mL)
1 cup strong black coffee (I used Green Mountain Coffee’s Vermont Country Blend) (240 mL)
1/2 cup vegetable oil (120 mL)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract (4 grams)
Chocolate Buttercream Frosting

DIRECTIONS:
Heat oven to 350°F. Grease and flour two 9-inch round baking pans or one 13x9x2-inch baking pan. Set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment or in a large bowl with an electric mixer, combine the sugar, flour, cocoa(s), baking soda, baking powder and salt. Mix on low until dry ingredients are thoroughly combined.
Add eggs, buttermilk, coffee, oil and vanilla. Beat on medium speed for about two minutes; the batter will be thin.
Pour batter evenly into prepared pans.
Bake in preheated oven for 30 to 35 minutes for round pans, 35 to 40 minutes for rectangular pan or until wooden toothpick inserted in center comes out clean.
Cool 10 minutes; remove from pans to wire racks. Cool completely.
Frost as desired. I used a simple and delicious Chocolate Buttercream Frosting from Savory Sweet Life. One batch was perfect for this layered chocolate cake.

NOTES:
The Black Cocoa from King Arthur Flour is optional – it simply provides a great depth of flavor and color to the chocolate cake.
This cake also pairs beautifully with a simple chocolate ganache.
The coffee really brings out the depth of the chocolate (you won’t even taste the coffee at all!), but if you really don’t want to use it, feel free to substitute water.
For an egg substitute, simply add one mashed banana or 1/4 cup unsweetened applesauce for each egg.
This recipe will make about 24 to 36 cupcakes. Bake at 350 degrees between 20 and 30 minutes.
You can also make a bundt cake with this recipe. The cake should bake for about 35 to 40 minutes at 350 degrees.

Source: https://www.mybakingaddiction.com/the-best-chocolate-cake/

BUTTERMILK SUBSTITUTE

All you need is milk and white vinegar, or lemon juice. I typically opt for 2% or whole milk and fresh lemon juice, but bottled will also do the trick.

Measure one tablespoon of white vinegar, or lemon juice into a liquid measuring cup.

Add in a scant cup of milk and fill to the 1 cup measurement line.

Stir the mixture together and let sit for 5 minutes.

Source: https://www.mybakingaddiction.com/buttermilk-substitute/

Ganache Frosting

Ingredients:
16 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped fine
16 ounces (2 cups) heavy cream

Place the chopped chocolate into the bowl of a food processor.

Heat the heavy cream in a quart-sized, microwavable container and microwave for 3 to 4 minutes on high, or until it just begins to simmer;
be careful not to allow cream to boil over. Pour the cream over the chocolate and let stand for 2 minutes. Process by pulsing several times
until chocolate mixture is smooth. Use as is for glazing. If you wish to make a lighter frosting, allow it to come to room temperature,
approximately 2 hours. Once at room temperature, place in the bowl of a stand mixer and whisk on high for 2 to 3 minutes.

Source: https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/alton-brown/ganache-frosting-recipe-1915833

Chocolate Mousse
Six to eight  servings
Adapted from Mastering the Art of French Cooking (Knopf) by Julia Child.There’s not a lot of tweaking that I would do to this recipe.
If you want to give it a little salty kick, use salted butter. For those avoiding coffee, you can use decaf or black tea. The rum can be
omitted. If so, use 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract.It may seem like a few steps (and bowls) but the recipe is quite straightforward. You’ll
need one medium saucepan partially filled with barely simmering water for melting the chocolate and butter, then use it again for whipping
the egg yolks and sugar. It’s a bit of a workout so feel free to use a handheld electric mixer if you don’t have the moxie for a bit of whisking.

6 ounces (170g) bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
6 ounces (170g) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1/4 cup (60ml) dark-brewed coffee
4 large eggs, separated
2/3 cup (170g) plus 1 tablespoon sugar
2 tablespoons (30ml) dark rum
1 tablespoon (15ml) water
pinch of salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

1. In a medium to large bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water, melt together the chocolate, butter and coffee, stirring until smooth.
Remove the bowl from the heat and let sit until tepid.
2. Fill a large bowl with ice water and set aside.
3. In another medium bowl set over the simmering water, whisk the yolks of the eggs with the 2/3 cup of sugar, rum, and water for about 3 minutes
until the mixture is thick, like runny mayonnaise. (You can also use a handheld electric mixer.)
4. Remove the bowl from heat and place the bowl of whipped egg yolks in the bowl of ice water. Beat gently until cool and thick. Remove the bowl
from the ice, and fold the chocolate mixture into the egg yolks.
5. In a separate bowl, beat the egg whites with the salt until frothy. Continue to beat until they start to hold their shape. Whip in the
1 tablespoon of sugar and continue to beat until thick and shiny, but not completely stiff, then add the vanilla.
6. Fold one-third of the beaten egg whites into the chocolate mixture, then fold in the remainder of the whites just until incorporated, but
don’t overdo it or the mousse will lose volume.
7. Transfer the mousse to a serving bowl or divide into 6 or 8 serving dishes, and refrigerate for at least 4 hours, until firm.
Serving: I like to serve the chocolate mousse as it is, maybe with just a small dollop of whipped cream – it neither needs, nor wants, much
adornment. It’s great on its own. Another option is some orange creme anglaise: if you serve it from a large serving bowl, you can spread a
pool of icy cold creme anglaise on individual plates, then put a scoop or two of chocolate mousse in the center of each.

Source: https://www.davidlebovitz.com/perfect-chocola/

Chocolate Génoise Recipe
OK, I decided.

Chocolate génoise is the foundation upon which a great Black Forest cake is built, and is good for a number of other things besides.
Like a classic génoise it’s rather dry, but then it’s whole reason for being is to be soaked liberally with syrup.

2 ounces (4 tablespoons) unsalted butter
3.5 ounces (3/4 cup) cake flour
0.75 ounces (1/4 cup) Dutch-process cocoa
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 eggs, room temperature
5.25 ounces (3/4 cup) sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat your oven to 375°. Melt the butter in a small saucepan and allow it to cool. Meanwhile, line a 9-inch springform pan with
parchment paper. Next, sift together the flour, cocoa powder and salt into a large bowl.

Whisk the eggs, sugar and vanilla together in the bowl of a stand mixer (you’re not actually using the mixer here ) then set the bowl
over a pan of gently simmering water. Heat the mixture until it’s just warm, about 115 degrees Fahrenheit. When he egg mixture is warm,
place it in the mixer, attach the whip, and whip it on medium-high until it is tripled in volume, about 6-8 minutes.

Turn off the mixer, pour off about 1 cup of the mixture into the melted butter and stir it together. This lightens the butter so it will
incorporate a bit more easily in the last step. Pour the mixture back into the mixer bowl, sprinkle on the sifted flour mixture, and using
your largest spatula (or mixer), fold the whole mixture together.

Gently scrape the mixture into the prepared pan and back 35-40 minutes until the cake is just firm. Transfer it to a rack and let it cool
for about 5 minutes, then turn it out onto a rack to cool, upside down.

Source: https://joepastry.com/2014/chocolate-genoise-recipe/
